# Help on Help## IntroductionWELCOME TO THE HELP SYSTEMThe help system is a simple user interface to display help contents to the user. It can be accessed from the world menu using "Tools" -> "Help Browser" or by evaluating 'HelpBrowser open' in a workspace.There is a predefined mechanism allowing you to have help contents stored as source code using methods in specific help provider classes. This allows to manage the help texts using the standard development tools. But this is only one possible representation.## Implementation### OverviewTHE IMPLEMENTATIONThe help system typically consists of help books including one or more pages. A book or page is therefore a "topic of interest"  providing contents for help to a user. A topic has a title and an icon and is able to have subtopics forming a hierarchy of topics. This simple model is reflected in the class HelpTopic.Since this model forms a hierarchical structure of help topics there is a browser with a tree to display the help contents. This browser is implemented in class HelpBrowser.You can open this browser programmatically using:   HelpBrowser open### 1. Simple help topicsThe help browser usually operates on a hierarchy of help topics with one help topic at the root level. Evaluate the following expression in a workspace to contruct a simple help topic and open it as a root topic in the help browser.				|root|		root := HelpTopic 			title: 'My first topic'			contents: 'A simple topic of interest'.									HelpBrowser openOn: root				Note that the help browser displays the contents of our topic in the right page and uses the topics title as the title for the help browser window.			### 2. Forming a hierarchyTo form a hierarchy we just have to add new subtopics on our root topic.				|root sub1 sub2|		root := HelpTopic 			title: 'My first topic'			contents: 'A simple topic of interest'.				sub1 := HelpTopic 			title: 'My first subtopic'			contents: 'First subsection'.				sub2 := HelpTopic 			title: 'My second subtopic'			contents: 'Second subsection'.				root 			addSubtopic: sub1; 			addSubtopic: sub2.		HelpBrowser openOn: root				### 3. Adding iconsIf you dont like the default icon you can add own custom icons to the topics. See the class HelpIcons for more details.				|root sub1 sub2|		root := HelpTopic 			title: 'My first topic'			contents: 'A simple topic of interest'.				sub1 := HelpTopic 			title: 'My first subtopic'			contents: 'First subsection'.				sub2 := HelpTopic 		     			title: 'My second subtopic'			iconName: #packageIcon			contents: 'Second subsection'.				root 			addSubtopic: sub1; 			addSubtopic: sub2.		HelpBrowser openOn: root				### 4. Own help objectsYou can open this help browser directly on an instance of HelpTopic, but it is more common to open it on any object that understands the message #asHelpTopic.So you can write for instance:   HelpBrowser openOn: Integeropening a short API help/system reference on the Integer class.The above expression is the short form for:   HelpBrowser openOn: (SystemReference forClass: Integer)If you want you can include the subclasses:   HelpBrowser openOn: (SystemReference hierarchyFor: Integer)or even methods   HelpBrowser openOn: (SystemReference hierarchyWithMethodsFor: Integer)You can browse the whole system reference documentation using:    HelpBrowser openOn: SystemReferenceBut these are only a few examples what we can extract from the system. However - the major goal is NOT an API browser, the idea is to provide a simple architecture to provide browsable help contents depending on the context. For instance it should also be possibleto use the help system to provide end user help on any commercialapplication that is written with the Smalltalk system.### Custom help from code#### OverviewOVERVIEW	The help system allows you to provide own books and help texts. You can open the help browser on any object that is able to understand #asHelpTopic.This method returns the root node of the displayed topic hierarchy:      HelpBrowser openOn: myObjectTypically the object does not convert itself to a help topic structure, usually it dispatches to a builder (see HelpBuilder and subclasses) who does all this. 	A much more convenient and reproducable way is to implement custom help classes. This allows you to implement and manage your help texts using the standard development and code management tools. These custom help classes are subclasses of "CustomHelp" and are automatically included into the standard help browser. #### Step 1 - Create a class for the bookSTEP 1 - CREATE A CLASS FOR THE BOOK		There is a predefined class CustomHelp which you have to subclass for a custom help book to show up as a book in the Help browser:	  CustomHelp subclass: #MyAppHelp    	instanceVariableNames: ''	  classVariableNames: ''	  poolDictionaries: ''	  category: 'MyApp-Help' Class methods on this class can reflect pages and if you want to provide nested help books just subclass your own help class to form a hierarchy. Any new subclass of MyAppHelp will then be a new book in your hierarchy.The class category used should end with "-Help" so it is easy to recognize that it includes the help support of your project.#### Step 2 - Provide a book nameSTEP 2 - PROVIDE A BOOK NAME	Now implement the class method #bookName to return the name of your help book.   bookName	    ^'My App help'	By implementing this method the system knows how you would like to name your book and uses the given string as a label in the HelpBrowser later.Additionaly you can specify #bookDescription which will be displayed in the HelpBrowser when one selects your book. The description han be added in the following way:	bookDescription	    ^ 'This is a help book about my App'#### Step 3 - Implement pages using methodsSTEP 3 - IMPLEMENT PAGES USING METHODS Implement a page by defining a method that returns an instance of HelpPage defining a page title and a help text displayed in the help browser.      firstPage     	    ^HelpTopic	           title: 'First Page'                  contents: 'Hello world'Define a new method for each page of your book. Please group the pages in a method category called "pages".You can also define an icon for the specific page:     secondPage     	    ^HelpTopic	           title: 'Second Page'     	           iconName: #packageIcon                 contents: 'More to come'Note: =====Later we may add support for better help contents than just plain text (markup descriptions, active morphs, ...)  #### Step 4 - Defining the page orderSTEP 4 - DEFINING THE PAGE ORDER By implementing the class method #pages you return a collection of method selectors to define the order in which the pages appear in your book:      pages     	    ^#(firstPage secondPage)#### Step 5 - Test your helpSTEP 5 - TEST YOUR HELP	By using              HelpBrowser open #### Step 6 - Add more structureSTEP 6 - ADD MORE STRUCTUREIf you add a new subclass to your custom help class and repeating step 2 to 4 you canprofide new substructures (subbooks) since the help books are mapped to the class hierarchy. Example: MyAppHelp subclass: #MyAppTutorial    	instanceVariableNames: ''	  classVariableNames: ''	  poolDictionaries: ''	  category: 'MyApp-Help' then implement a #bookName, the pages and a #pages method as before on this new class and reopen the help browser. 		#### Step 7 - Tips and TricksSTEP 7 - TIPS AND TRICKSTip1:          If you implement the #pages method you can also           use the name of a custom help class that should be           integrated between the specific pages:               #pages                   ^(firstPage MyAppTutorial secondPage)Tip2:          You can easily edit the help contents of a page by           using the #edit: message. For our example just evaluate:			MyAppHelp edit: #firstPage				     This will open a workspace with the help contents and 	     when you accept it it will be saved back to the help 	     method defining the topic.		  		## API Documentation### HelpSystem-Core-Model### HelpSystem-Core-Utilities### HelpSystem-Core-UI